# Movies Data Analysis Project
## Table of content
Project overview
Data Source
Results
Challenges in analysis

### Project overview
This data analysis project aims to provide insights into the performance and trends of movies from 2012 to 2016. By analyzing various aspects of the movie data, we seek to identify patterns, make data-driven recommendations and gain a deeper understanding of the industry's dynamics.
### Data Source
The dataset for this analysis is taken from here: [Movies dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/arpitsinghaiml/movie-data2012-2016) </br>
Hollywood movies released between 2012-2016 including total movie budget and revenue generated by each movie. This dataset likely includes information such as movie titles, release dates, genres, directors, cast members, production budgets, box office revenues. Analyzing this dataset could provide insights into trends in the film industry during those years, such as popular genres, successful production strategies, the impact of directors or actors on box office performance.
### Tools
- Excel
- Pivot tables
- Power Query
### Data Cleaning and Preparation
1. Data loading and inspection
2. Handling errors, missing values
3. Data cleaning and formatting. The resulting excel file ready for analysis can be downloaded here - [Download file](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/17754588/Movies.Data.Dashboard.xlsx)
### Questions answered
- Most profitable genres in this period of time
- Most successful actors
- The best and the worst movie based on return on investment
 ### Results and findings
 The best profitable movie was **The Devil Inside**, with the Box office Revenue 100 times the movie budget (10,000% ROI). The genre of it was Horror. Horror movie might be a good investment, especially if the budget is low. </br> The most successful genre overall was **Action**. </br> The most successful actress by the total Box Office Revenue was **Jennifer Lawrence**.
